
 MOGrip: Gripper for Multi-Object Grasping in Pick-and-Place Tasks Using Translational Movements of Fingers
 MOGrip: Gripper for Multi-Object Grasping in Pick-and-Place Tasks Using Translational Movements of Fingers
 Jaemin Eom1, Sung Yol Yu1, Woongbae Kim2, Chunghoon Park1,3, Kristine Yoonseo Lee1, Kyu-Jin Cho1
 1Biorobotics Laboratory, Seoul National University 2Korea Institute of Science and Technology 3Global Technology Research, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.
 Paper
 Video
 Abstract
Humans use their dexterous fingers and adaptable palm in various multi-object 
grasping strategies to efficiently move multiple objects together in various situations. 
Advanced manipulation skills, such as finger-to-palm translation and palm-to-finger 
translation, enhance the dexterity in multiobject grasping. These translational movements 
allow the fingers to transfer the grasped objects to the palm for storage, enabling the 
fingers to freely perform various pick-and-place tasks while the palm stores multiple 
objects. However, conventional grippers, although able to handle multiple objects 
simultaneously, lack this integrated functionality, which combines the palm’s 
storage with the fingers’ precise placement. Here, we introduce a gripper for 
multi-object grasping that applies translational movements of fingertips 
to leverage the synergistic use of fingers and the palm for enhanced 
pick-and-place functionality. The proposed gripper consists of four fingers 
and an adaptive conveyor palm. The fingers sequentially grasp and transfer objects 
to the palm, where the objects are stored simultaneously, allowing the gripper to move 
multiple objects at once. Furthermore, by reversing this process, the fingers retrieve 
the stored objects and place them one by one in the desired position and orientation. 
A finger design for simple object translating and a palm design for simultaneous object 
storing were proposed and validated. In addition, the time efficiency and pick-and-place 
capabilities of the developed gripper were demonstrated. Our work shows the potential of 
finger translation to enhance functionality and broaden the applicability of multi-object 
grasping.
 Video
This video explains the research motivation, the mechanism design of the proposed gripper, and its applications.
 Demo - Logistics
 A lab-scale logistics demonstration was conducted to validate that the developed gripper can selectively pick up and transport multiple objects together.
 Comparison - Single-Object Grasping
 Compared to the same demonstration performed with single-object grasping, the proposed multi-object gripper reduced the end-effector's travel distance by approximately 71% and the overall process time by about 34%.
 Demo - Tidying Up a Desk
 To verify that the proposed gripper can place the stored objects in their desired locations, we demonstrated a gripper tidying up a cluttered desk in a domestic environment.
 Pick and Place Various Objects
 The gripper also successfully grasped, stored, retrieved, and placed 23 different types of objects due to the adaptability of its fingers and conveyor palm.
Grasp Strategy I – Hand Segmentation
Grasp Strategy II – Finger-to-Palm and Palm-to-Finger Translation
Mechanism Design
 What mechanism design enables a robotic gripper to effectively replicate human finger-to-palm and palm-to-finger translation? 
 BibTeX
@article{eom2024mogrip,
 title={MOGrip: Gripper for multiobject grasping in pick-and-place tasks using translational movements of fingers},
 author={Eom, Jaemin and Yu, Sung Yol and Kim, Woongbae and Park, Chunghoon and Lee, Kristine Yoonseo and Cho, Kyu-Jin},
 journal={Science Robotics},
 volume={9},
 number={97},
 pages={eado3939},
 year={2024},
 publisher={American Association for the Advancement of Science}
}
 Website template borrowed from NeRFies. 
