
 Design and evaluation of a tendon-and-linkage hybrid-driven humanoid dexterous hand | Scientific Reports
 Skip to main content
 Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
 the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
 Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
 and JavaScript.
 Advertisement
 View all journals
 Saved research
 Search
 Log in
 Content
 Explore content
 About the journal
 Publish with us
 Sign up for alerts
 RSS feed
 nature
scientific reports
articles
 article
 Design and evaluation of a tendon-and-linkage hybrid-driven humanoid dexterous hand
 Download PDF
 Download PDF
 Article
 Open access
 Published: 04 August 2026
 Design and evaluation of a tendon-and-linkage hybrid-driven humanoid dexterous hand
 Ke Li 
 ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-8660-01161 na1, 
Fanlin Meng1 na1, 
Linjie Liu1, 
Raviraj Nataraj2, 
Ning Sun3 & 
…
Na Wei4 
Show authors
 Scientific Reports
 (2026) Cite this article
 Save article
 View saved research
 1186 Accesses
 Metrics details
 We’re sharing this article early to provide faster access to peer-reviewed, accepted research. It is citable and carries a permanent DOI. This version is subject to further edits and will be replaced automatically by the final Version of Record. All legal disclaimers apply.
 Abstract
Dexterous hands are essential for robotic grasping and manipulation; however, existing designs remain limited in achieving both structural and functional biomimicry. In this study, a humanoid dexterous hand, termed the REL Hand, was developed and experimentally evaluated. The REL Hand adopts a modular architecture comprising five digits and one palm, with 15 active and 5 passive degrees of freedom. A hybrid tendon-and-linkage actuation system was designed to enable compact mechanical integration and motion decoupling. The hand further incorporates a fingertip preload mechanism, five thin-film pressure sensors, ten custom inertial measurement units, and an embedded control system for multisensory acquisition and actuator coordination. Experimental results showed that the REL Hand generated an average fingertip force of approximately 4.9 N and reproduced all 16 representative grasp configurations in the Cutkosky taxonomy. Compared with the commercial OHand, the REL Hand improved trajectory correlation and morphological similarity to human hand motion by 8% and 17.7%, respectively. Object-grasping experiments using the Yale-CMU-Berkeley object set demonstrated high grasping success rates for common daily objects. Moreover, the preload mechanism improved grasping performance by factors of 1.9, 1.7, and 4.7 for food items, kitchen items, and tools, respectively. Overall, the REL Hand provides a compact and biomimetic platform for dexterous robotic grasping and manipulation.
 Similar content being viewed by others
 A detachable crawling robotic hand
 Article
 Open access
 20 January 2026
 Embedding high-resolution touch across robotic hands enables adaptive human-like grasping
 Article
 Open access
 09 June 2025
 Spatially distributed biomimetic compliance enables robust anthropomorphic robotic manipulation
 Article
 Open access
 26 April 2025
 Explore related subjects
 Discover the latest articles and news in related subjects.
 Engineering
 Mathematics and computing
 Soft Robotic Systems and Actuation Technologies
Funding
The study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (62573268, 62073195), the Horizontal Scientific Research Project (1400024090), the National Key Research and Development Program (2020YFC2007904), the Key Research and Development Programs of Guangdong Province (2020B0909020004) and the Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation (ZR2023QF126).
Author information
Author notesThese authors contributed equally to this work: Ke Li and Fanlin Meng.
Authors and Affiliations
Center for Intelligent Medical Engineering, School of Control Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan, 250061, China
Ke Li, Fanlin Meng & Linjie Liu
The Movement Control Rehabilitation Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Schaefer School of Engineering and Science, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, NJ, 07030, USA
Raviraj Nataraj
School of Information Science and Engineering, Shandong Normal University, Jinan, 250014, China
Ning Sun
Department of Geriatrics, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 250012, China
Na Wei
AuthorsKe LiView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Fanlin MengView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Linjie LiuView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Raviraj NatarajView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Ning SunView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Na WeiView author publications
Search author on:PubMed Google Scholar
Corresponding authors
Correspondence to
 Ke Li or Na Wei.
Ethics declarations
 Competing interests
 The authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Publisher’s note
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Rights and permissions
 Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
 Reprints and permissions
About this article
Cite this article
Li, K., Meng, F., Liu, L. et al. Design and evaluation of a tendon-and-linkage hybrid-driven humanoid dexterous hand.
 Sci Rep (2026). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-026-63917-x
Download citation
Received: 18 April 2026
Accepted: 22 July 2026
Published: 04 August 2026
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-026-63917-x
Share this article
Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:
Get shareable linkSorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Copy shareable link to clipboard
 Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
 Download PDF
 Advertisement
 Explore content
 Research articles
 News & Comment
 Collections
 Subjects
 Follow us on Facebook
 Follow us on X
 Sign up for alerts
 RSS feed
 About the journal
 About Scientific Reports
 Contact
 Editors
 Journal policies
 Guide to referees
 Calls for Papers
 Editor's Choice
 Journal highlights
 Open Access Fees and Funding
 Publish with us
 For authors
 Language editing services
 Open access funding
 Submit manuscript
 Search
 Search articles by subject, keyword or author
 Show results from
 All journals
 This journal
 Search
 Advanced search
 Quick links
 Explore articles by subject
 Find a job
 Guide to authors
 Editorial policies
 Scientific Reports
 (Sci Rep)
 ISSN 2045-2322 (online)
 nature.com footer links
 About Nature Portfolio
 About us
 Press releases
 Press office
 Contact us
 Discover content
 Journals A-Z
 Articles by subject
 protocols.io
 Nature Index
 Publishing policies
 Nature portfolio policies
 Open access
 Author & Researcher services
 Reprints & permissions
 Research data
 Language editing
 Scientific editing
 Nature Masterclasses
 Research Solutions
 Libraries & institutions
 Librarian service & tools
 Librarian portal
 Open research
 Recommend to library
 Advertising & partnerships
 Advertising
 Partnerships & Services
 Media kits
 Branded
 content
 Professional development
 Nature Awards
 Nature Careers
 Nature 
 Conferences
 Regional websites
 Nature Africa
 Nature China
 Nature India
 Nature Japan
 Nature Middle East
 Privacy
 Policy
 Use
 of cookies
 Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
 Legal
 notice
 Accessibility
 statement
 Terms & Conditions
 Your US state privacy rights
 © 2026 Springer Nature Limited
 Close banner
 Close
 Sign up for the Nature Briefing: AI and Robotics newsletter — what matters in AI and robotics research, free to your inbox weekly.
 Email address
 Sign up
 I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
 Close banner
 Close
 Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
 Sign up for Nature Briefing: AI and Robotics
